---
layout: post
title:  "Dumping."
date:   2020-10-15 00:18:23 +0700
categories: [tools]
comments: false
---
*3 min read*

## **Dumpers**

### Who may mistakenly believe they are Delegators.

### **What ticks us off**

Everyone agrees that delegating is an essential part of managing and leading. But too often, the delegatee feels dumped upon. And more often than not, the delegator feels—usually quite rightly!—that it would be quicker to do it themselves than to delegate.

### **How it can happen**

It’s a real Catch-22. If there’s enough time for us to do a task, we’ll tend to do it ourselves—because we can, and because it’s easier, quicker, and safer to keep control of it.

If there isn’t enough time to do a task, we tend to end up *dumping* it on someone else, whether or not we dress it up and call it ‘delegating,’ or even an ‘opportunity’ or a ‘challenge.’

Why? Because there simply isn’t enough time to delegate the task properly. We end up frustrating everyone involved!

And another thing: sometimes, frustratingly, the person who is delegating will cause great confusion by telling someone not only *what* to do, but *how* to do it—all jumbled up together.

So, delegation is much admired, applauded, and encouraged—but it is less often done effectively.

### **Tips for handling dumpers**

The key to delegating is to understand that—because of the dumping and do-it-yourself tendencies mentioned above—it only really works when we delegate a *type* of task, not a one-off task. Delegating a type of task means the delegatee can handle a whole *category* of tasks, not just one. And in this way, they can be trained—and developed.

Because they can genuinely deputize for the delegator long term.

This means taking time to delegate properly—not when there’s an urgent task to be done!

### **When being dumped on**

Here’s a simple, effective delegation model. Hand it to the dumper.

1. Plan who to delegate to, how long it will take to delegate (i.e., coach, teach, train) properly, and when, where, and how it would be best to do it.

2. Explain exactly what is needed (not how to do it—yet), in what form, for what purpose, and when.

3. Invite the delegatee/deputy to respond, after thinking, by confirming what the brief is.

4. Clarify the brief, if necessary. For example:

   - “What you correctly understood is…”
   - “What you added in, that I did not specify, is…”
   - “What you left out is…”

   Repeat steps 2 and 3 if necessary.

5. Invite the delegatee to consider:

   - how they might achieve this;
   - what resources or training they’ll need;
   - what support or supervision they want;
   - what authority they’ll need;
   - who else needs to be informed that they have this authority.

6. Negotiate on the reassurances you both want, to ensure the project stays on track.

7. Upon completion, discuss:

   - feedback;
   - feedforward; and
   - learnings for each of you—on the specific project and the broader task category.

This was an excerpt from [*How People Tick: A Guide to Over 50 Types of Difficult People and How to Handle Them*](https://www.amazon.com/How-People-Tick-Difficult-Handle-ebook/dp/B005QBHY5C) by Mike Leibling.
